let's be real the only thing that
matters right now is what Jerome Powell
says and when he said the things that he
said and people weren't happy you
shouldn't be surprised you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
in today's video I'm going to break down
what Jerome Powell said I'm going to
show you the data that's actually behind
this why this is all happening right now
today as it affects people in their
daily lives and actually in the next few
months could become even worse let's
begin first things first you could see
Powell reiterates fed likely to keep
rates higher for longer officials should
be patient and let restrictive policy
work Powell Flags lack of inflation
progress in the first quarter so this
comes after an interview he's there he
made a few you know few comments that
markets really didn't like investors
really didn't like um not that he's
saying the the wrong things necessarily
it's just the admission at the Federal
Reserve we see it and they are basically
going along with it uh we did not expect
this to be a smooth road but these were
higher than I think anybody expected
who's anybody exactly not those on
watching this channel anyway what that
has told us is that we need to be
patient let restrictive policy do its
work hire for longer higher for longer
this was not anticipated all the way
through through 2023 into the end of the
year that was not the case we were with
this understanding in the fourth quarter
inflation was getting better there was
no need to worry because the cuts are
coming soon today very different
scenario isn't okay so that's what
Jerome Powell said markets don't like
that investors don't like that because
they want interest rate Cuts you could
see the direct response the direct
response with cryptocurrencies of course
this happens all the time they move like
that and of course when there isn't
going to be an easy money policy coming
around you could see it going in the
cryptocurrency markets you see it in the
markets in general markets do move you
know generally and broadly in One
Direction um but of course there's
always going to be different days we've
seen a lot of risk taking recently and
uh that can't last while we have a
tighter monetary policy tighter I make
got to put that e at the end of that
looking at this I mean I think it's just
pretty clear what has happened um you
know talking about the cuts and so
on the idea that a cut would happen is
still on the table poell saying that but
not at this time rate hikes suggesting
no no we're just going to hold it in
place okay so understand that the
anticipation right now from not not just
Powell but others of the fomc is that
they will uh at this point start to um
just hold in place okay no Cuts what is
the data behind that very important is
the PPI now PPI producer price uh Index
this is something that we have to look
at because it tells us what happens with
the CPI the Consumer Price Index so
that's uh basically leading us into the
CPI and when you can see the producer
prices up then what happens if the raw
materials that go into what makes my
products that I sell are then higher if
the labor is more if the warehousing is
more the shipping is more so on and so
forth then it's going to be a increase
in the price that I sell that product
for okay so if I'm used to a 20% profit
margin and now suddenly it's 15% or 12%
what am I going to do I bump it up a
dollar right and that's the way it goes
that's the way things have been
happening not just for I'm just talking
about personal experience uh but you can
see that this is with Clorox and this is
with you know all these other brands out
there they do the same thing of course
they know how to really put the squeeze
on this is showing us the uh PPI again
but um when we look at the core PPI so
whatever there's like a million
different ways to to measure these
things the point I was just showing you
is that however it's measured the PPI
has risen okay that's all you need to
know um looking at it for services as
well services I mean it's ridiculous
it's ridiculous how expensive services
in general have become you want any
service done it seems like it's just off
the charts off the charts over the last
few years the gold price of course
responded
positively to this because if there's
going to be inflation out there you know
what goes on I mean it's pretty clear uh
but we'll see if that can be sustained
okay if they are going to um you know
it's going to be higher inflation rates
the antithesis of that would be you know
I guess we could say if inflation is
going to be higher the Hedge against
that inflation is gold okay and that's
the direct response but you know if it's
willing to be sustained is is a
different story keep that in mind but
know this bad news becomes good news for
the S&P again that's the way it goes bad
news is good news why is that the case
because it means Cuts have to come soon
enough higher inflation ah well that
means we're going to have to cut some
interest rates right or lower inflation
oh we're going to have to cut some
interest rates oh the sky is blue going
I have to cut some interest rates
they're looking for any reason to do
that okay so they just change your tune
as they see fit Market typically rallies
on good or bad
news okay I mean this is the way it goes
if you're trying to always be on the
opposite side of that you're like I'm
going to short every day of the year all
day every day year after year after year
you're going to be in big trouble
because the vast majority of the time
the stock market goes
up okay that that's the way it
goes so don't you know just just watch
out that's all I'm saying uh and I want
to make something clear as well the PPI
for processed Goods is one of those ones
that I see a lot of times processing is
where you incur more um you know more
time more effort and all that um and so
like for instance if you're looking at
like food well something that doesn't
require any processing or minimal
processing like a head of lettuce or
something that head of lettuce they just
cut it they can throw it there in a pile
that might require minimal processing
whereas you know if going to make the
you know the sugary cereals that people
have that requires a lot of processing
so we see the prices rise on those more
we've seen more inflation on those
things there there's no question about
it look at like a McDonald's hamburger
there's so much processing that goes
into that versus like just the simple
thing that you might buy from your
butcher or whatever big difference I
don't know if this guy was being
sarcastic or whatever but on X he said
no reason to be be alarmed by the PPI
strong stock market performance drove
part of the gains but air fars are down
sharply auto insurance is flat and
general consumer good goods markups are
down so I I honestly don't
insurance is not going up you kidding me
air fairs are down sharply what not I'm
not going to tell you not in Canada and
consumer goods markups are down look
none of that it seems to be accurate to
me you tell me is it by the way if you
appreciate this information hit that
Thumbs Up Button don't forget that to do
that okay listen there's a very serious
uh thing that's going on today and that
that we can see more inflation piling up
on top of people their core PPI and and
looking at the core pce and looking at
the CPI none of that is real none of
that's real particularly when they get
rid of volatile food and energy I love
that they can't just say food and energy
they every single time 100% of the time
they put vola
food and energy it's hilarious but of
course that's the way it's done on
purpose it's propaganda so what can we
do as individuals of course like I've
said before a thousand times um you
could just check my playlist where I've
go over this you know a lot um but
basically we need to be doing what we
can to mitigate some of this damage we
need to reduce the costs uh that we're
spending in a given month go back to any
of your providers your insurance your
power where you're getting your food
from everything
renegotiate renegotiate or go to another
company there are always going to be
competitors and that's uh something that
we can do we get comfortable in where we
are go back to these companies and ask
them for a better deal or seek out
another one this is the way we can
reduce our costs and we could do so
today yes that might involve being on
the phone for an hour and arguing and
then you got to switch to the other
company and you got to do some paperwork
but in the end you might save a few
hundred bucks a year on just one thing
that didn't you know may maybe that's
worth it to you to save a few hundred
it's a simple matter of a phone call
some emails maybe some paperwork but do
it okay if you want some more
information about how I teach people
each and every week on Friday and on
Sunday in a live Zoom class check out
the link at the top of the description
and don't be afraid to reach out to me
and ask me any questions okay okay I'll
see you then take care